Mid-Project Update for Fake Face Detection Project

Alex Kyllo, Will Thomas, John Wyman

November 11, 2020

1. Progress so far:

We have applied several pre-processing steps to the real and fake face images
including resizing, cropping, and converting to grayscale, to reduce the
dimensionality of the inputs and speed up model training.

We decided to utilize Keras on Tensorflow 2 to build a convolutional neural
network for the classification task.
We have trained an initial 3-layer, 3x3 kernel CNN on the test images that
attained 75% accuracy on the validation set after 5 training epochs.
We believe we can improve on this
through further training and hyperparameter tuning, and we are currently
researching alternative CNN architectures to evaluate, such as the VGGNet
 architecture.

2. Main challenges so far and how you plan to overcome them

Due to our lack of experience with the Keras / TF framework, CNNs, and deep
learning in general, most of our time has been taken up by reading documentation and
tutorials to learn how to set up the model training process, so it has taken
longer than we expected to get an end-to-end working model. Plenty of learning
resources are available online, so we think we can overcome this challenge with
persistence, practice, and patience.

3. Potential hurdles in the second half of the project and any help you may need

The second half of the project will focus on evaluating the model for fairness
in its performance across gender, age and race groups. We found a separate dataset
called FairFace, which consists of 100,000 real human face images
labeled by gender, age and race, but that will only allow us to assess fairness by
false positive rate. Because we lack a similar
repository of fake face images with corresponding demographic labels, we cannot
assess false negative rate fairness, without a creative solution.

Three approaches we are considering to address this challenge are:

- Manually labeling a subset of perhaps a few hundred fake face images by
age/gender/race to use in fairness evaluation
- Training an age/gender/race classifier model on the FairFace dataset, using it
to label the Fake Faces dataset, and then evaluating our fake face classifier
by its fairness across these predicted classes
- Utilizing a pretrained StyleGAN model to take the labeled FairFace images
as input and transform their latent space encodings to generate similar fake
face images for false-negative rate fairness assessment.

We would appreciate any suggestions regarding other potential approaches to
this problem or opinions on which of the above techniques is most likely to
yield the best results.
